# Informational Studies: Internet and Society

# Blog Week 3

When you hear the words “self-portrait,” what comes to mind? For me, I thought I drawing a picture of my face would expose my unartistic abilities. Although that is the literal meaning of a self-portrait, with the use of html, I was able to interpret the concept of a self-portrait in any way I wanted to. At first, the thought of my background and ethnicities came to mind, but that was too basic. I then realized that I wanted to create a self-portrait of the aspects of my life that got me here today. That was living the life as a student and an athlete. Without them, I wouldn’t be going to the prestigious UCLA. Being a student and an athlete are on opposite sides of the spectrum. You were either a nerd or a jock, but I was both. This explains the layout of my webpage. I split the page into halves to emphasize the contrast of the two, but I still included them both on the same page because they define who I am. The title text box and the “Next Chapter” text box are meant to seal the two aspects together, signifying the meaning of who I am, and how I will continue to live this life going into college. The color background of course symbolizes UCLA and shows how much effort it took to get into the university for both the “student” and “athlete” parts of my life. All the pictures in the self-portrait give you a taste of who I am. They are fairly recent photos but it helps reflect the maturity of the topic as well. Overall, I had a great time completing the html self-portrait of myself because it made realize who I really am, and it gives me peace of mind that someone can be inspired by experiences.  

The most difficult part of creating my self-portrait was definitely understanding how html works. It took many hours of learning, but I eventually got the gist of it. Adding the interactive features such as the hover effect, tab bar, and links were especially the most difficult. I never knew anything about coding, which made it more frustrating with the problems that occurred. I have to say that finishing the portrait was probably one of the most satisfying experiences. My ability to learn something I had no clue of before put a smile on my face. Many of us are learning and excelling in the technology field. This project gave me more insight to what the Internet is really capable of. In “Alternate and Activist New Media” by Leah A. Lievrouw, it says, “In the field of communication, scholars have taken several approaches to defining media and communication technologies over time.” It’s so ironic to notice that I’m one of those students pursuing knowledge to define media technologies. The readings definitely connected to the portrait in a surprisingly way. The ideas reflected in the project and readings spiked my interest in the technology world, and I can’t wait to learn and understand more of it.

Lievrouw, L.A. (2011). Challenging the experts: Commons knowledge. In Alternative and Activist New Media, pp. 177‐213. Cambridge: Polity.

# Blog Week 1

The Internet is such a complex networking system that has changed the way we think, act, communicate, and live. From the readings, it emphasizes on how the Internet is a revolutionary gateway in the technology industry. It is forever impacting our social, economic, and political societies. Before the Internet, there was the telegraph. The telegraph was very much neglected in a way because it actually produced industries and varieties of communication. There is little credit given to the way the telegraph began the electronic revolution, changed how we communicate and obtain knowledge, created the relationship between innovation and monopoly. (Carey, 2009). From that point on, the world was changed. Humans were now given the ability to interpret time, journalize our thoughts, and organize our government from one little invention. For example, like I already said, The Internet has essentially changed the way we communicate drastically. “This points, first, to the need to consider more carefully the relationship between language and technology.” (Gillespie, 2006, p. 450). Language conveys meaning and the way we communicate, whether in technology or not, is always adapted.

In The Master Switch, the author says, “The oscillation of information industries between open and closed is so typical a phenomenon that I have given it a name: ‘the Cycle.’” (Wu, 2010, p. 6). Wu excellently provides us with the explanation of “the Cycle.” This is a cycle of breakthroughs in the corporate world that often starts with the exposure of failures. When an innovation is developed, it is popularized. The more it is mass consumed, the more exposure of failures is shown. To fix this, companies pursue to continuously fix the problem, and the cycle starts all over again. The openness and closedness of this can be seen, but raises the question about the Internet. The Internet remains diffused but if consolidated, then the Cycle will appear.

Another example of our innovative minds is through the creation of Low-tech Internet. Low-tech networks are usually connected with WIFI links, the same type of network for our mobile devices. (Low-Tech Magazine). The advantages come in many shapes and forms. The cheap capital costs and availability of a good amount of bandwidth allow long range WIFI to be in less developed countries as well. It is somewhat a metaphor with connecting these excluded countries with the rest of the world. In the end, WIFI has benefited our daily lives on social media, and the intuitive minds of people in poorer countries. The author Gillespie introduces us to the end-to-end principle. “The end-to-end principle essentially states that all knowledge about the specific needs of particular applications should be concentrated at the “end-points” of a network connection, that is, at the hosts that are communicating with each other; no other network components, such as routers, should need to know any of the details of application function or data structure in order to operate effectively.” (Dourish, 2015, p. 8). This shows how developed and innovative humans have gotten. The Internet has helped us grow in so many ways. Now, the Cycle will continue from to go on from there, or will the Internet defy the odds? What’s the next breakthrough?

Carey, J. (2009). Technology and Ideology: The Case of the Telegraph

Wu, T. (2010) The Master Switch: The Rise and Fall of Information Empires. Chapters 1 and 15, pages 3 -14, and 196-203

Gillespie, T. (2006) Engineering a Principle: 'End-to-End' in the Design of the Internet. Social Studies of Science, Vol. 36, No. 3. Sage Publications

Dourish, P. (2015) Not The Internet, but This Internet: How Othernets Illuminate Our Feudal Internet. 5th Decennial Aarhus Conference on Critical Alternatives

How to Build a Low-tech Internet, Low-Tech Magazine
